# Re-visiting the false consensus bias in the interpretation of legal text 
This experiment is a replication of a recent study investigating variation in the interpretation of vague or underspecified terms in legal documents (Waldon, Brodsky, Ma, and Degen 2023). The abstract from this original study is as follows: 

	We present a large-scale conceptual replication of an experiment that provided evidence of false consensus biases in legal interpretation: when reading a legal contract, individuals are prone to over-estimate the extent to which others would agree with their interpretation of that contract (Solan 2008). The results of our replication affirm this previous finding, but they also suggest that there is substantial unexplained item-level variation in the extent to which individuals agree on contract interpretation, in addition to unexplained variation in the extent to which the false consensus bias holds across interpretive contexts.

	In a first step towards understanding the source(s) of this variability, we show that a state-of-the-art large language model (LLM) with zero-shot prompting does not robustly predict the degree to which interpreters will exhibit consensus in a given context. However, performance improves when the model is exposed to data of the form collected in our experiment, suggesting a path forward for modeling and predicting variability in the interpretation of legally-relevant natural language.

The current experiment aims to replicate the human-experimental portion of the original study, with one small adjustment. Instead of probing participant's own intutions about whether or not an incident is covered by a relevant contractual clause, participants will be asked if they think legal professionals (i.e. lawyers, judges, etc.) would believe that incident is covered by a relevant contractual clause. This modification will provide additional evidence regarding the nature of consensus biases in the interpretation of legal terms, and will contribute to ongoing experimental jurisprudence literature that investigates the various factors that influence how lay-people interact with legal language.  
